Document NOM users feature (#80)
neo4j/docs-ops-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/administration/user-management.adoc

= NOM user management
:description: This section describes the user management in Neo4j Ops Manager.

*User Management* allows setting up NOM users for persons who are in charge of managing the Neo4j deployment and reflecting their roles by assigning appropriate access levels.
The effective access levels of a NOM user are reflected in the NOM UI appropriately.

These tasks can only be accomplished by a NOM user who has the role *NOM Admin*.

[NOTE]
====
The default NOM user `admin` has the role *NOM Admin* and can therefore be used to create new NOM users (including other *Administrators*) and configure their access to NOM features.
====

== Scope of NOM users

> NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server and are not related to other systems (Neo4j database, operating system, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server and are not related to other systems (Neo4j databases (persistence or monitored ones), operating system, etc.).
```

= NOM user management
:description: This section describes the user management in Neo4j Ops Manager.

> *User Management* allows setting up NOM users for persons who are in charge of managing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*User Management* allows setting up NOM users for persons who are in charge of managing the Neo4j deployment and reflecting their roles by assigning appropriate access levels.
```

> the Neo4j deployment and reflecting their roles by assigning appropriate access levels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

These tasks can only be accomplished by a NOM user who has the role *NOM Admin*.

[NOTE]
====

> The default NOM user `admin` has the role *NOM Admin* and is therefore can be used to create new NOM users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default NOM user `admin` has the role *NOM Admin* and is therefore can be used to create new NOM users (including other *Administrators*) and configure their access to NOM features.
```

> (including other *Administrators*) and configure their access to NOM features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

====

== Scope of NOM users

> NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server and are not related to other systems

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server and are not related to other systems (Neo4j database, operating system, etc.).
```

> (Neo4j database, operating system, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

== NOM user administration tasks

The NOM user management is performed in the *Administrators* section of the NOM settings page.

=== Creating a user

Click on *"Create user"* button to open the sidebar containing the tabs *"User info"* and *"DBMS access control"*.

==== Assigning access levels on features

> If a user has the role *NOM admin* (see checkbox on the *"User info"* tab), it will have full feature access, for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a user has the role *NOM admin* (see checkbox on the *"User info"* tab), it has full feature access, for all DBMSs.
```

> all DBMSs. Therefore, the tab *"DBMS access control"* is not relevant for *NOM admins*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, the tab *"DBMS access control"* is not relevant for *NOM admins*.
```

> Other users will have the role *Administrator* assigned. In this case, access to every feature can be given explicitly or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other users may have the role *Administrator* assigned. 
In this case, access to every feature can be given explicitly or implicitly by assigning access levels to a DBMS glob pattern.
```

> implicitly by assigning access levels to a DBMS glob pattern. Access levels for global features can be set on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access levels for global features can be set on the *"User info"* tab and DBMS-specific features can be secured on the *"DBMS access control"*.
```

> *"User info"* tab and DBMS-specific features can be secured on the *"DBMS access control"*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

See the following table for permission description.

|===
|NOM Feature (scope) |Access levels |Description

|*Agent* (global)
|No access, view, edit
|Access to the *"Agents"* page of the NOM settings area.

|*Status* (DBMS-specific)
|View, edit
|Access to the *"Status"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Security* (DBMS-specific)
|No access, view, edit
|Access to the *"Security panel"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Status* (DBMS-specific)
|No access, view
|Access to the *"Logs"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Upgrades* (DBMS-specific)
|No access, View, edit
|Access to the *"Upgrade"* page for assigned DBMS(s).
|===

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If DBMS is renamed or migrated after being assigned explicit permissions, the permissions will remain unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the DBMS is renamed or migrated after being assigned explicit permissions, the permissions remain unchanged.
```

====

==== Duplicating permissions of another user

The function "Copy other's access" can be used in cases when several NOM users with similar permissions must be created.

> This function appends permissions of another user (selected in the popup) to the permissions of the current user. Permissions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function appends permissions of another user (selected in the popup) to the permissions of the current user. 
```

> that where already assigned are not appended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Permissions already assigned are not appended.
```

==== Working with DBMS glob patterns

> Should the Neo4j deployment have many DBMSs, it can be efficient to assign DBMS-specific permissions to a set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Should the Neo4j deployment have many DBMSs, it can be efficient to assign DBMS-specific permissions to a set of DBMSs with a single line in the permission table.
```

> of DBMSs with a single line in the permission table. The DBMS glob patterns are checked against the DBMS name, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DBMS glob patterns are checked against the DBMS name, which can be set using NOM.
```

> can be set using NOM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> The glob syntax used in NOM supports the following wildcards: `*`, `?` and `[...]`. For a description of how these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The glob syntax used in NOM supports the following wildcards: `*`, `?` and `[...]`. 
For a description of how these wildcards work see for example https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)#Syntax[this wikipedia article].
```

> wildcards work see for example https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)#Syntax[this wikipedia article]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Glob patterns are created by using the "Assign DBMSs" pop-up and can be reused for several NOM users. To verify the set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Glob patterns are created by using the "Assign DBMSs" pop-up and can be reused for several NOM users. 
To verify the set of DBMSs that match the glob pattern, use the icon next to the glob pattern in the permission table.
```

> of DBMSs that match the glob pattern, use the icon next to the glob pattern in the permission table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

[NOTE]
====
*Rules for multiple permissions on a DBMS:*

> 1. If several glob patterns match a DBMS, the permissions of all the matching globs are combined in a way that for every

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If several glob patterns match a DBMS, the permissions of all the matching globs are combined in a way that for every feature the most restrictive access level is applied.
```

> feature the most restrictive access level is applied. *Example*: for a user, a glob pattern `\*` defines access level "Edit" for the "Security"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 *Example*: for a user, a glob pattern `\*` defines access level "Edit" for the "Security" feature, whereas another glob pattern `*PROD*` defines access level "View" for the same feature.
```

> feature, whereas another glob pattern `*PROD*` defines access level "View" for the same feature. User's resulting access level

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User's resulting access level to the feature "Security" is "View", since it is more restrictive.
```

> to the feature "Security" will be "View" since it is more restrictive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> 2. If permissions are explicitly assigned to a DBMS, they always *as a whole* take precedence over permissions assigned to a glob

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If permissions are explicitly assigned to a DBMS, they always *as a whole* take precedence over permissions assigned to a glob pattern that matches this DBMS name.
```

> pattern that matches this DBMS name. This means, that the permissions assigned to a glob pattern are *ignored* completely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that the permissions assigned to a glob pattern are *ignored* completely.
```

====

=== Modifying a user

> Locate the user to be modified, and use the tabs *"User info"* and *"DBMS access control"* to modify user. All

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Locate the user to be modified, and use the tabs *"User info"* and *"DBMS access control"* to modify user. 
```

> modifications performed are persisted when the *"Save"* button is clicked. Clicking *"Cancel"* removes undoes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All modifications performed are persisted when the *"Save"* button is clicked. 
Clicking *"Cancel"* removes the modifications.
```
removes OR undoes, I just picked one. Please change if it should be undoes.

> the modifications. This also applies to removing assigned DBMS or DBMS glob patterns from the table in *"DBMS access control"*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This also applies to removing assigned DBMS or DBMS glob patterns from the table in *"DBMS access control"*.
```

Until being saved or cancelled, removed entries are marked visually (grayed out).

[NOTE]
====

> A user with role *NOM Admin* can not degrade her role to *Administrator*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A user with role *NOM Admin* cannot degrade their role to *Administrator*.
```

====

=== Removing a user

Locate the user to be removed, click it and press the "Remove user" button at the bottom of the sidebar.

[NOTE]
====

> User can not remove himself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users cannot remove themselves.
```

====

[NOTE]
====

> Should user modification or removal result in DBMS globs patterns being unused (e.g. not referenced by other users), these globs will be removed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Should user modification or removal result in DBMS globs patterns being unused (e.g. not referenced by other users), these globs are removed as well.
```

> as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

= NOM user management
:description: This section describes the user management in Neo4j Ops Manager.

> *User Management* allows setting up NOM users for persons who are in charge of managing the Neo4j deployment and reflecting their roles by assigning appropriate access levels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*User Management* allows creation and management of NOM users enabling persons who manage the Neo4j estate to be assigned appropriate access levels according to their role. 
```

The effective access levels of a NOM user are reflected in the NOM UI appropriately.

== Roles of NOM users

[%noheader]
|===
||

|NOM Admin
|Has access to all features of NOM for all DBMSs  and can administer NOM users, including creating other users that have the role *"NOM Admin"*.

|Administrator
|Has access to features of NOM as configured by NOM Admin.
Can not administer NOM users.
|===

[NOTE]
====
The default NOM user `admin` has the role *NOM Admin* and can therefore be used to create new NOM users (including other *Administrators*) and configure their access to NOM features.
====

== Scope of NOM users

> NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server and are not related to other systems (Neo4j databases (persistence or monitored ones), operating system, etc.).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOM users can only be used to access the functionality of the NOM server.
They are not related to users of other systems (NOM persistence, monitored Neo4j DBMSs, operating systems etc). 
```

Access to the *"Agents"* page of the NOM settings area is currently only one global feature that requires explicit permission.
Applicable access levels are: *"No access"*, *"view"*, *"edit"*.

==== Assigning access levels on DBMS specific features

Assigning access levels on DBMS specific features is performed in the *"DBMS access control"* tab.

For users having the role *Administrator* (checkbox *NOM Admin* on the *"User info"* tab is *OFF*), access to every DBMS specific feature can be given explicitly or implicitly.
Explicit permissions are be assigned directly to DBMSs.
Implicit permissions are assigned to DBMS glob patterns.

image::nom-administrators-dbms-access-control.png[width=800]

See the following table for permission description.

|===
|DBMS-specific feature |Access levels |Description

|*Status*
|View, edit
|Access to the *"Status"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Security*
|No access, view, edit
|Access to the *"Security panel"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Status*
|No access, view
|Access to the *"Logs"* page for assigned DBMS(s).

|*Upgrades*
|No access, View, edit
|Access to the *"Upgrade"* page for assigned DBMS(s).
|===

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If the DBMS is renamed or migrated after being assigned explicit permissions, the permissions remain unchanged.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we need a corresponding note in the glob pattern section - saying that permissions may be affected if a DBMS is renamed 🤔

Author: see c64ea94

====

> ==== Duplicating permissions of another user

Reviewer 3: I think it makes sense to switch this section with the next one `Working with DBMS glob patterns` because that would my first question from the previous section would be `How do globs work?`

Author: @eve-bright Eve, please see 24a8ab3. Directly swapping did not work for me so I had to move parts around :-)

. If several glob patterns match a DBMS, the permissions of all the matching globs are combined in a way that for every feature the most restrictive access level is applied.
 *Example*: for a user, a glob pattern `\*` defines access level "Edit" for the "Security" feature, whereas another glob pattern `*PROD*` defines access level "View" for the same feature.
User's resulting access level to the feature "Security" is "View", since it is more restrictive.
. If permissions are explicitly assigned to a DBMS, they always *as a whole* take precedence over permissions assigned to a glob pattern that matches this DBMS name.
This means that the permissions assigned to a glob pattern are *ignored* completely.
====

=== Modifying a user

Locate the user to be modified, and use the tabs *"User info"* and *"DBMS access control"* to modify user. 
All modifications performed are persisted when the *"Save"* button is clicked. 
Clicking *"Cancel"* removes the modifications.
This also applies to removing assigned DBMS or DBMS glob patterns from the table in *"DBMS access control"*.
Until being saved or cancelled, removed entries are marked visually (grayed out).

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If users password is changed, they will be automatically redirected to the password change page after the login.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the user's password is changed, they will be automatically redirected to the password change page after the login.
```
